MIGEN-1692 - Added product overview (#154)
MapsIndoors/mapsindoors.github.io: collections/_product/index.md

---
layout: default
title: MapsIndoors Product Overview
published: true
date: 2019-09-30
permalink: /product/
---

MapsIndoors is an Indoor Wayfinding Platform, which you can build your map experience on top of.

MapsIndoors consist of:

> * A Content Management System (CMS)
> * Three SDKs
> * Three standard apps
> * A webkiosk solution
> * An integration API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A Content Management System (CMS)
* Three SDKs:
  * Android
  * iOS
  * JavaScript
* Standard apps built on top of each SDK 
* A kiosk web app
* An Integration API
```

All of these will be presented below.

## Prerequisites for a Custom MapsIndoors Solution

> When you order a MapsIndoors solution your organisation needs to provide MapsPeople with floor plans for each of the buildings you want to have indoor navigation for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you buy MapsIndoors your organisation needs to provide MapsPeople with floor plans for each of the buildings you want to have indoor navigation for.

```

> When we receive these they will be digitised and positioned correctly in “the world” aka on the underlying Google Map. This is what we define as a solution, for which you will get a MapsIndoors API key. Using this API key when working with the SDKs will unlock your custom solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we receive these they will be digitised and positioned correctly in “the world”. This is what we define as a Solution, for which you will get a MapsIndoors API key. Use this API key when working with the SDKs to access your data.
```

A few notes:

- All technical terms related to MapsIndoors should be kept capitalised (Solution, Building, Floor etc.)
- We should refrain from mentioning a specific map provider going forward, as we'll support multiple providers

## Content Management System

> When you have a custom MapsIndoors Solution you also get access to the MapsIndoors CMS. Within the CMS you can manage locations within your solution; create, remove, update locations such as rooms, coffee machines etc. The content created within the CMS is the content that can be accessed and controlled via the SDKs (see the next section).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you have a custom MapsIndoors Solution you also get access to the MapsIndoors CMS. Within the CMS you can manage Locations within your Solution; create, remove, update Locations such as rooms, coffee machines etc. The content created within the CMS is the content that can be accessed and controlled via the SDKs.
```

Should we mention the option of removing rooms?

Author: What are your thoguhts?

Reviewer: You can't remove Rooms in the CMS—only POIs. This is to prevent that there's a discrepancy between the geodata created by the digitization team and what's in the CMS.

> The CMS is used for day to day management if a location needs to be moved (could be a printer or a coffee machine), if rooms get new names (meeting rooms for example), if access needs to be restricted to some locations etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CMS is used for day-to-day management if a Location needs to be moved (could be a printer or a coffee machine), if Rooms get new names (meeting rooms for example), if access needs to be restricted to some Locations etc.
```

> ![MapsIndoors CMS](/assets/product/CMS.png "MapsIndoors CMS")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![MapsIndoors CMS](/assets/product/CMS.png)
```

## SDKs

> The SDKs enable you to build your own custom app on top or as an integral part of your existing app. The MapsIndoors SDKs are available for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SDKs enable you to build your own custom app on top of, or as an integral part of, your existing app. The MapsIndoors SDKs are available for:
```

> ![Platforms](/assets/product/Platforms.png "Platforms")

Reviewer: A comment on the use of these images: It's not great for search engines and accessibility in general. I think we should keep to using text as much as possible to make sure it's indexable and easily readable for humans and machines alike.

> ![Platforms](/assets/product/Platforms.png "Platforms")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Platforms](/assets/product/Platforms.png)
```

> The MapsIndoors SDKs are the engine that makes sure that you can create a route from a Google location to one of your Indoor locations, it enables you to search in your indoor locations, set the present relevant information for specific locations by calling the room IDs from the CMS etc. An exhaustive list of features within the SDKs can be found in reference documentation for each platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MapsIndoors SDKs are the engines that makes sure you can create a route from a location in the world to one of your indoor locations, search your indoor locations, show the relevant information for a specific location etc. An exhaustive list of features within the SDKs can be found in the reference documentation for each platform.
```

## Standard Apps & Kiosk

> MapsIndoors Standard Apps are built on top of the SDKs and visualises some of the SDK capabilities. They are more or less plug and play and provide a good basic indoor navigation app with a map, category overview of locations, search, directions and routing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MapsIndoors Standard Apps are built on top of the SDKs and visualises some of the SDK capabilities. They are more or less plug-and-play and provide a good basic indoor navigation app with a map, Category overview of Locations, search, directions and routing.
```

> ![WebApp](/assets/product/webApp.png "WebApp")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![WebApp](/assets/product/webApp.png)
```

> The MapsIndoors Standard App Suite also includes a plug and play Kiosk solution. The solution can be run on a kiosk stand and help one-time users of a facility to find their way without having an app - for example at a Hospital.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MapsIndoors Standard App suite also includes a plug-and-play Kiosk web app. The app can be run on an information stand and help one-time users of a facility find their way without having an app - for example at a hospital.
```

> ![Kiosk](/assets/product/Kiosk1.png "Kiosk")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Kiosk](/assets/product/Kiosk1.png)
```

## Integration API

The MapsIndoors Integration API is used to connect 3rd party systems with MapsIndoors in order to feed data into the MapsIndoors solution. It could be live data from a bus service driving around an airport, a meeting room booking service, parking lot vacancy information etc. The Integration API offers updates of rooms, buildings, floors, areas, categories etc. Currently there are two types of integration supported; Real-time and Booking integrations.

Real-time integrations are characterised by displaying data “live” on the map (< 1 min delay). The data is read-only and gathered and distributed on the specific solution, but is never saved/cached for more than 30 minutes. This could be a bus moving around an airport, which could be shown live on the map.

> Booking integrations are characterised by data flowing in and out of MapsIndoors (read/write). Room bookings can happen directly from MapsIndoors and/or be displayed on the MapsIndoors map. For example is it possible to call a room ID and change the color of the corresponding room’s polygon to e.g. visualise whether it is vacant or not based on a calendar integration.

Reviewer: This should be revisited. The Integration API does not handle Live Data—the Integration API is only used for infrequent updates to the MapsIndoors Solution data.

Author: I more or less took this from the presentation JW held some weeks ago.
What is it that can be misunderstood?

## Indoor Positioning System

> MapsIndoors is primarily an Indoor Navigation Provider that can provide directions and guide users as well as present relevant information on the map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MapsIndoors is an Indoor Navigation Provider that provides directions and guide users as well as present relevant information on the map.
```

> In order to get precise user position indoors, dynamic turn-by-turn routing, location based advertising etc. an IPS should be put in place in the relevant building(s).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In order to get a precise user position indoors, dynamic turn-by-turn routing, location-based advertising etc. an Indoor Positioning System (IPS) should be put in place in the relevant building(s).
```

> MapsPeople do not sell Indoor Positioning Systems, but MapsIndoors integrate with them. If your organisation wants to have precise positioning there is a range of different technologies to consider such as Beacons, WiFi, ultra-sound etc. You can [read more here](https://blog.mapspeople.com/mapsindoors/indoor-positioning-101).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

MapsPeople do not sell Indoor Positioning Systems, but MapsIndoors integrate with them. If your organisation wants to have precise positioning there are a range of different technologies to consider such as Beacons, WiFi, ultra-sound etc. You can [read more here](https://blog.mapspeople.com/mapsindoors/indoor-positioning-101).
```

![MapsIndoors CMS](/assets/product/CMS.png)

## SDKs

The SDKs enable you to build your own custom app on top of, or as an integral part of, your existing app. The MapsIndoors SDKs are available for:

![Platforms](/assets/product/Platforms.png)

The MapsIndoors SDKs are the engines that makes sure you can create a route from a location in the world to one of your indoor locations, search your indoor locations, show the relevant information for a specific location etc. An exhaustive list of features within the SDKs can be found in the reference documentation for each platform.

## Standard Apps & Kiosk

MapsIndoors Standard Apps are built on top of the SDKs and visualises some of the SDK capabilities. They are more or less plug-and-play and provide a good basic indoor navigation app with a map, Category overview of Locations, search, directions and routing.

![WebApp](/assets/product/webApp.png)

The MapsIndoors Standard App suite also includes a plug-and-play Kiosk web app. The app can be run on an information stand and help one-time users of a facility find their way without having an app - for example at a hospital.

![Kiosk](/assets/product/Kiosk1.png)

## Integration API

> The MapsIndoors Integration API is used to connect 3rd party systems with MapsIndoors in order to feed data into the MapsIndoors solution. The API provides an interface to update data in MapsIndoors from an external source. An external source could be a Facility Management System that already contains relevant data for your MapsIndoors solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MapsIndoors Integration API is used to connect 3rd party systems with MapsIndoors in order to feed data into your MapsIndoors Solution. The API provides an interface to update data in MapsIndoors from an external source. An external source could be a Facility Management System that already contains relevant data for your MapsIndoors Solution.
```

> It is possible to update Locations, Rooms, Venues, Buildings, Floors, Areas etc. automatically instead of having to do it manually via the MapsIndoors CMS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to update Locations, Rooms, Venues, Buildings, Floors, Areas etc. automatically instead of having to do it manually via the MapsIndoors CMS.
```

> ### Integration Modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Integration Modules
```

Currently there are two types of integration modules supported; Real-time and Booking integrations.

> Real-time integrations are characterised by displaying data “live” on the map (< 1 min delay). The data is read-only and gathered and distributed on the specific solution, but is never saved/cached for more than 30 minutes. It could be live data from a bus service driving around an airport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Real-time integrations are characterised by displaying data “live” on the map (< 1 min delay), for example a live-updating position from a shuttle bus service in an airport. The data is not saved for long-term storage, only briefly cached to ensure delivery to the apps.
```

> Booking integrations are characterised by data flowing in and out of MapsIndoors (read/write). Room bookings can happen directly from MapsIndoors and/or be displayed on the MapsIndoors map. For example is it possible to call a room ID and change the color of the corresponding room’s polygon to e.g. visualise whether it is vacant or not based on a calendar integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Booking integrations are characterised by data flowing in and out of MapsIndoors (read/write). Room bookings can happen directly through your app built with MapsIndoors, and you can display the booking status of a meeting room directly on the map, i.e. whether it is vacant or not.
```
